The Secret Sweeney

The darkness in the heart of Dundee

Douglas McIntosh

Feb 2021

This document references a more sexist and bigoted time. I can 
remember the day to day racism, bigotry, xenophobia and sexism 
that was not only tolerated but encouraged. It upsets me to this 
day that I engaged in any of it. Like any game the players should 
be clear about what is and is not acceptable at their table. All 
individuals should be comfortable not just most of them. 
Acceptance and tolerance should not be an average level of 
comfort but a minimum. Dark Dundee feeds on hate, fear and 
loathing. Don't give it more. 




Table of Contents

Part I The Rules
1 How To Play
1.1 GM Agenda
1.2 Character Statistics
1.3 Wounds & Damage
1.4 Universal Moves
2 Character Classes Cops 
Alpha Cop
Analyst Cop
3 Equipment and Stuff
Part II Dark Dundee
4 Notes
5 Locations
5.1 The Liff: The Dundee Royal Lunatic Asylum
5.2 'Smuth: Little Innsmouth
6 Factions
7 Characters
8 Timeline
8.1 General Background
8.2 Ghosts
8.3 Prehistory 
The Nine Maidens
Whuppity Stoorie
8.4 15th Century 
8.4.1 Earl Beardie
Denfiend Cannibals
8.5 17th Century Bonnie
Susie Cleland
8.6 19th Century 
The Monster of Glamis
Springheels
Broughty Ferry Mystery
8.7 20th Century 
Bigfoot
Hellhounds










The Rules

How To Play

This game is not designed or aimed at novice GMs. It is my own 
notes on a setting I have used with my play group. Shared in a 
way that I hope other people may enjoy.

Cops; the muscular line between law and chaos. The boys in blue 
protect the city from the normal day to day criminals, busting 
heads and taking no prisoners[margin:
Actually they do take prisoners. That's the point.
].

1.1 GM Agenda

Why are you running the game?[margin:
Pick your own reasons.
]

• Make the characters' lives' not boring.

• To explore a mystery together.

1.2 Character Statistics

Physical Strength, dexterity it’s all here. 

Resilience Physical toughness.Take a lickin’ and keep on tickin’. 

Wits Cleverness and sense. 

Guts Hunches, confidence.

Presence Personality. Persuasion, intimidation and cajoling.

Weird Connection to The Dark. This also is a measure of the 
Dark's connection to the character.



Cops are tough, clever and attuned to the world around them. To 
begin with you get one +3 bonus, two +2 bonuses and two +1 
bonuses. Put them where you like. Most of the moves can be used 
in various ways. Want to dominate a room with your muscular 
presence buff your Physical, want to dominate a room by standing 
very, very still then buff your Presence. Play the way you want.

1.3 Wounds & Damage

You're going to get hurt. Probably going to get hurt a lot. Wound 
levels are affected by Resilience. For every bonus point in 
Resilience you get an extra level os Still Tickin'.

Uninjured Nothing has happened to you. You're fine. Be careful

Still Tickin' Someone has managed to lay a hit on you. No game 
effect.

Wounded You're hit and have taken some serious damage. Suffer a 
-1 to any Move.

Grevious You're probably bleeding and covered in bruises. Suffer 
a -3 to any move.

Unconscious Yep. You're lying on the floor. You can't do 
anything. Unless you're in the Dreamlands.

At Death's Door Without trained help you're going to die, or 
worse.

Some weapons do damage that last. Firearms for example do damage 
that lasts between scenes unless specifically healed in game. 
Lesser damage, from a bar fight for example, does not last 
between scenes. Even if it left you lying on the floor 
unconscious.

1.4 Universal Moves

Character Classes Cops 

"I'm gonna come down on you so hard your going to have to reach 
up to tie your shoe laces." - The Sweeney

Should I combine all the cops into one?

All the cops should be fairly tough, able to hold their own in a 
fistfight, have basic firearms training and have a solid 
grounding in crime scene investigation. Every character has to be 
working for the police in some capacity. Every character also has 
to be either human, originally human or at the very least mostly 
human.[margin:
You can change this at will.
]

  Alpha Cop

A cowboy that doesn’t play by the rules. Or maybe he does play by 
the rules if he is Judge Dredd. Traditionally male though this is 
more a matter of attitude than gender. 

  Analyst Cop

Someone that uses a more understated approach. Piecing the 
evidence together to work towards a conviction. Dark Dundee 
Characters

Equipment and Stuff

Put equipment and stuff here. Stuff should probably include 
enhanced items. And cars, big cars.

Dark Dundee

[float Figure:


<Graphics file: D:/dougl/OneDrive/Documents/GitHub/douglasamcintosh.github.io/Published/The Secret Sweeney/Images/dundeeoldmap.jpg>

[Figure 3.1: 
Dark Dundee
]


]

Notes

The world is not one. It is many and Other. At certain locations 
and times the walls between become thin. Stonehenge, Capel Mair 
ar y Bryn and Kilmarnock are all examples of places that are 
close to the Other.

In some places Innsmouth, Dunwich, Jackson, Brichester and Dundee 
something has occurred that has shattered the wall. There are 
paths between, ghost walks, Fey trails, dead end underpasses that 
allow travel between. Unreality seeps in and the real world 
location becomes a little more distant. These locations at as a 
magnet for the weird and wonderful attracting people and things 
with an interest in the mysteries of the world. Most people still 
don't notice, a person's ability to lie to themselves is 
significant. Seen a ghost; 'I've had too much to drink'. 
Nosferatu in the shadows; 'trick of the light'. Chilling sense of 
potential apocalypse under a blood moon; 'bit chilly tonight I'll 
put the central heating on!'

Locations

5.1 The Liff: The Dundee Royal Lunatic Asylum

5.2 'Smuth: Little Innsmouth

Factions

Characters

Timeline

Almost all this material is taken from the following site. 
Portions copied here to be turned into game background.

[www.ddtours.co.uk||www.ddtours.co.uk]

A history of terrible events in Dark Dundee. Both actual and 
otherwise. Other Sources

[archive.org/details/historyofolddund00maxw/page/n7/mode/2up ||archive.org/details/historyofolddund00maxw/page/n7/mode/2up ]

8.1 General Background

Black Magik, the Occult and Withcraft

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/black-magic-the-occult/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/black-magic-the-occult/]

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/persecution-of-witches/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/persecution-of-witches/]

For decades, there have been rumours about supposed black magic 
rituals being undertaken in well-known local sites such as Balgay 
hill, the Law, Ballumbie, Templeton Woods and Claypotts Castle, 
to name but a few. By day, these places appear tranquil and 
serene, but if the rumours are true, it’s a completely different 
world at night.

Dundee is no stranger to tales of the occult, and the vast array 
of local stories about fooling about with ouija boards and 
finding strange markings and evidence of rituals come across our 
desks more often than you could imagine – you lot are a strange 
bunch! Even Bonnie Dundee, Bloody Clavers himself, is reported to 
have made a deal with the devil to make him more robust in battle 
(although we all know how that worked out for him in the end). 
Black magic, worship of the devil and dark occultism have been 
around for millennia. Before science took a grip of the world, 
almost everyone believed in some form of higher power and the 
practise of witchcraft in some form or another. People engaged 
with each other by telling stories, and, as the story passed from 
person to person, it became more embellished and elaborate – a 
trait which is still dominant in us to this day. There is very 
little in the way of documented evidence showing demonic 
invocation, possession, necromancy, or even the healing powers of 
white magic, yet still it is a touchy subject for most of us. 

8.2 Ghosts

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/the-white-lady/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/the-white-lady/]

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/grey-lady-of-glamis/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/grey-lady-of-glamis/]

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/the-ghosts-of-castle-huntly/ ||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/the-ghosts-of-castle-huntly/ ]

8.3 Prehistory 

  The Nine Maidens

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/nine-maidens/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/nine-maidens/]

A man lived with his nine, reportedly beautiful daughters on 
farmland known as Pitempton. After a particularly busy day 
tending the land on what had turned out to be a very warm day, 
the farmer felt that his insatiable thirst could only be quenched 
by a pail of water fetched from a nearby well. Having been so 
tired from his day of labouring, he entrusted his eldest daughter 
to the task.

As time passed, and with no sign of his eldest daughter, the 
father sent the second-eldest daughter to find out what was 
taking so long and prolonging his thirst. Once again, when his 
second daughter did not return, he sent the third-eldest 
daughter. When she did not return either, he sent the next in 
line. This continued until he had sent each and every one of the 
sisters after each other, despite nobody ever returning. 
Eventually, the farmer decided he should go and see what had 
delayed his daughters. By this time, he must have been so thirsty 
and tired that the walk to the well would have taken up most of 
his energy.

Imagine his horror, when, upon reaching the well, he saw the nine 
slain bodies of his lovely daughters strewn over the ground by 
the well! Coiled around their battered bodies, basking in the 
blood of the innocent victims, the farmer was aghast to see a 
huge serpent-like dragon. Fearing he was about to become the 
tenth kill of the evening for the furious beast, the farmer fled 
screaming and shouting.

Disturbed by all the commotion, a crowd of neighbours had 
gathered as the farmer calmed down enough to tell them what he 
had seen near the well by Pitempton. Although they were scared, 
the people were also maddened by the deaths of the nine maidens, 
so they armed themselves with anything they could use as a weapon 
and set off to slay the dragon. It is said that Martin, a man of 
“brave heart and tremendous skill and courage” led the angry 
crowd back to the well to engage the beast. Martin is also 
referenced as the lover of one of the felled beauties, which may 
explain his heroism in the forthcoming battle.

Perhaps sensing that it was no match for the baying mob, the 
dragon attempted to make it’s escape, over the Dighty and into 
the lands beyond. Martin, however, had other ideas, and caught up 
with it. Using only a wooden club, he beat the dragon, eventually 
slaying it as the crowd yelled “strike, Martin”. Incidentally, 
the place where the dragon was defeated was named 
“Strike-Martin”, and was subsequently named Strathmartine – a 
name which has been used as titles for streets and buildings in 
the city.

  Whuppity Stoorie

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/whuppity-stoorie/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/whuppity-stoorie/]

The legend, or fairy tale of Whuppity Stoorie reads a lot like a 
Scottish version of Rumplestiltskin. The story is said to have 
taken place in a wee place called Kittlerumpit – good luck 
finding an exact location on that place! Robert Chalmers writes 
of Whuppity Stoorie in his 1858 ‘Popular rhymes of Scotland’, 
regaling us with a tale of a bereft mother and a fairy with a 
wicked plot, whose name would eventually become her undoing. 
We’ll let you do the reading for yourself on this one…and if 
anyone can shed any light on the location of Kittlerumpit, please 
get in touch! … (follow the link) 

8.4 15th Century 

8.4.1 Earl Beardie

www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/earl-beardie/

The tale of Alexander Lindsay, the 4th Earl of Crawford is by far 
one of the most popular ghost stories of Glamis. Known as “Earl 
Beardie”, Alexander Lindsay is alleged to have been a cruel, evil 
man with a wicked temperament and a searing bloodlust. Born to 
nobility and of a particularly influential character, he was 
involved in the battles against King James II as part of the 
Douglas clan uprisings. As we mentioned, he was an evil man, and 
it is alleged that he once had a black house-servant stripped 
naked and forced to run around in the grounds for his and the 
other Earls’ entertainment. In a macabre twist, the 
‘entertainment’ was actually a hunt, and the poor man was chased 
down by Earl Beardie, his guests, and their hunting dogs. His 
screams rang out over the land as he was stabbed with spears and 
literally torn apart by the dogs, defenceless and stricken by 
mortal fear.

  Denfiend Cannibals

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/denfiend/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/denfiend/]

During the 15th century, a family of cannibals are alleged to 
have lived on the outskirts of Dundee, in a place which came to 
be known as ‘Fiends Den’; later to be known as ‘Denfiend’ or ‘The 
Den of Fiends’. The location of Denfiend is said to be at a dip 
in the road between Newbigging and Monikie, just by the 
aptly-named Denfind Farm.

The legend goes that the family would lure in or ambush 
passers-by before murdering and eating them. No-one was safe from 
the voracious appetites of the cannibalistic family of Denfiend, 
but it is said that they preferred their victims young, as the 
meat was more succulent and tender. Initially the family never 
aroused suspicion, careful who they chose for their next meal so 
as not to cause any alarm, but, as time went on, their appetite 
for younger prey proved to be their downfall.

With a lack of travellers to the area, the family looked to their 
neighbours for their next meal, causing a significant swell in 
locals being reported as missing. It did not take long for the 
family to be held to account for their crimes, and they were all 
swiftly executed, with the exception of the youngest daughter, 
who was merely a baby.

8.5 17th Century Bonnie

  Susie Cleland

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/bonnie-susie-cleland/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/bonnie-susie-cleland/]

The song ‘Bonnie Susie Cleland’ is an interesting one. Adapted 
from The Child Ballads “Lady Maisry”, which tells a particularly 
brutal tale of a young Scots woman being burned at the stake by 
her family for falling in love with an English lord. Bonnie Susie 
Cleland is an adaptation of this tale set in Dundee, with Susie 
Cleland meeting a similar fate. 

8.6 19th Century 

  The Monster of Glamis

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/the-monster-of-glamis/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/the-monster-of-glamis/]

One of the most famous legends associated with Glamis Castle is 
that of the ‘Monster of Glamis’; a child born to the family and 
so hideously disfigured he was isolated in secret chambers within 
the castle walls, which were sealed upon his death. Legend has 
its beginnings in 1821 when the first son of the eleventh Earl is 
said to have been born horribly malformed. To hide this anomaly, 
news of the child’s death was fabricated to ensure that no-one 
sought after him. Only those with the hereditary right to be 
informed are told of the secret upon reaching their 21st 
birthday.

Another spin on it is that, to each generation of the family, a 
vampire child (or a child of monstrously superior abilities) is 
born and must be walled up in the secret chamber. 

  Springheels

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/springheels/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/springheels/]

In the latter part of 1882 and into the first few months of 1883, 
Dundee had a somewhat alarming visitor “…described as being 
rather tall, and is generally seen dressed in a long dark cloak, 
although occasionally he sometimes assumes a luminous appearance, 
supposed to be due to the inside of the cloak being lined with 
cloth dipped in phosphorus, and exposed to view. Several yards of 
crape are also suspended from his hat…” This dark, mysterious 
figure began appearing in and around the Blackness Quarry area 
around December 1882, and continued into February of the 
following year. Reports of the way he walked, or was able to leap 
in huge bounds earned him the popular moniker, “Springheels”. The 
situation became so phenomenal in the city, that stories of 
alleged sightings were ten a penny, with almost everyone knowing 
someone who had seen “Springheels”. 

  Broughty Ferry Mystery

[www.ddtours.co.uk/myths-legends/broughty-ferry-memorial-mystery/||www.ddtours.co.uk/myths-legends/broughty-ferry-memorial-mystery/]

Let’s go back to 1816, when Princess Charlotte, daughter of the 
soon-to-be King George IV, became married to Prince Leopold of 
Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld (later King of the Belgians). News of a 
pregnancy soon followed – an heir to the throne – but it was 
quickly cut short when Princess Charlotte gave birth to a 
stillborn male and tragically died the following day in November 
1817, aged just 21. This dark sequence of events has been written 
in the history books as occurring at Claremont House in England, 
but here’s where the twist comes in…

Local Dundee legend has it that Princess Charlotte and Prince 
Leopold were not at Claremont, as the story suggests, but were, 
in fact returning from a trip to Leopold’s homeland of Belgium 
when a mighty storm took hold of their ship. With their lives in 
perceived mortal danger, and with Princess Charlotte heavily 
pregnant, they sought refuge in the Tay in the hope of waiting 
out the terrible weather, and ended up in Broughty Ferry.

Unfortunately, the situation had proven too stressful for 
Charlotte and she began to go into labour. Getting her onto land 
would have proved difficult at best, but it is alleged they 
alighted at West Broughty Ferry and managed to secure lodgings at 
a nearby cottage where Charlotte gave birth and subsequently 
died. If Charlotte and Leopold’s child had survived, Queen 
Victoria would never have risen to the throne, and history as we 
now know it would be completely different. 

8.7 20th Century 

  Bigfoot

Bigfoot in Dundee I love it!

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/bigfoot/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/bigfoot/]

The first incident took place during the day when I was sent out 
to get the newspapers that got delivered to the neighbours at the 
bottom of the road. I was with the dog and we were coming down 
the path that leads to the track running past the bottom of the 
property and out to the farm road. I have marked where I was 
walking with the yellow dots. Just before I got onto the track 
the dog stopped suddenly and started to growl, whine and bare her 
teeth, I remember seeing the hair rising on her back but I 
carried on past her for a few paces ending up on the track (the 
green dot is where I stopped). I looked up to see a large black 
figure further along the track standing with its back to me (red 
dot number 1). It was reaching up to a branch on a tree at the 
side of the track and was tall, thick build with no neck and wide 
shoulders. I remember standing in shock for a second or two 
before screaming and turning to run back to the house , as I 
screamed it slowly started to turn round but I didn’t hang about 
to see its face. Needless to say my reports of seeing a monster 
were not taken seriously and dismissed as it probably being a 
neighbour. I can’t give an exact year but I was around 8/9 years 
old. This is an estimation as I remember drawing a picture of it 
in primary 5 at school, so that puts it around 1980/81 and I 
don’t have an exact time of year but the leaves were out on the 
trees so it would have been sometime between April/May and 
September. 

  Hellhounds

[www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/hellhounds/||www.ddtours.co.uk/archive/hellhounds/]

